#STP514 

P1: of Totipotent cells
P2: pluripotent cells
P3: Differentiated cells

E3: Transcription factors
E2: sandwich trigger
E1: Standard reproductive environment 

Mindshine 글을 읽고 왔으니 좀 나을것임. 
How we generate better policy? 
- Change policy. Cutting-edge science & cutting-edge psychology. 

# Deliberation democracy and the epistemic benefits of diversity

The argument from Potentiality
* embryoprotective positions
* controversy irrelevant 
	* P-quality: potential of 
	* Argument from continuity: no moreally relevant cutoff point
	* Argument from identity: identical to its later form. 
* Final descriptor: relevant potential is based on final of the entity
* bestowing potential: equivalent to being falling under the descriptor or rather subsume theembryo

* PA standard
	* PA as if: ex) driver liscence, prince to king
	* PA identity

* Argument - depotentialized? 
	* why should matter?
	* Absurd extension argument  
	
* Science evidence to legitimate 
* Induced IPSC cells - cannot convert it into another. 
* tetraploid compromentation 

Why is it still an issue? 
- not really agreed in 
- Potentiality argument are in the pins 
	- Deep & complex argument in bioethics. 

Underline the idea of ethics. 
- policy doesn't need to argument 
- PA - potential person 


PA 개념이면 망가진 embryo는 연구에 사용해도되는거네? 
Potentiality 
Two definitions of potential argument - 
* PA *as if* will be baby
* PA *are already* is a baby
	* Potential doesn't matter - they doesn't matter. Doesnot stop believing pa into metaphysical level 
* Nothing to do with embryos. 
	* Confusion is prevalent to the species. emerging technologies 
If science cannot say? 

Potentiality is confusing. - not morally important? 
Backfire. 

Embryo - tetrapli - contrivance. 
Reproduction, - not natural? concept of being natural? 
Naturality & Morality are different.

* Active and Passive potential
	* Conception to birth 
* Active & Passive argument - no differences in this case 
* P3: iPSC - reprogram : 줄기세포가 되는 과정은 active potential임. 사람이 되는게 passive potential임. 
	* Natural- Normal 
* p3 - transcription factor.
	* gene doesn't change, but embryo changes. -- how genome status 
* Passive potentials in all cases 

* Later potential in the cell. - very little genetics required to doing.
* Scientists are doing research 

# Reprogramming potentiality: The co-production of stem cell policy and democracy 
Active and passive potential 
Normal embryos outside of the venture. 

Passive potential - done from outside 
aristotle - active potential 
Pragmatically demonstration of PA is not viable. 
* Deep religious belief on metaphysical level. 
* PA - as if version. 
* Implications on science and technology policy 
* Meta-moral ideas 

1. PA succeeds as a pragmatic problem. : 실용적인 - deeper philosophical level
2. The table is passive potential - don't agree from scientists
	* Policy making에 적용할 수 있는가?
	* Ideal of democracy?
	* Technocracy가 될 것. opposing points of view 
# Deliberative democracy
* deliberation democracy 
* Policies are made of embryos ---
* Policies are made to relaw 
* What happens in science and tech policy? science itself is driven by policy. 
* Embryo - pre-embryo

Fertilized nuclear transfer cell. 
- Who should have the control of it? 
	- iPSC
	- Cell dies 
- Policy problem. 

* Societal Socioeconomic search가 신기술에 대해서 같이 진행되긴 하는데, 

* Depotentialization - rejected 
* Only undermine the pragmatic ideas. doesnot stop people defending more metaphysical ideas

Use of active and passive potential 

How do we deal with the pragmatic 
Every different ppl think. How agreement reached, 


Rebustness? 로버스트? 

Public funding
Commercialization research - Europe legal cases Bruce 
legal cases  - depends on state laws. 
Worries on commercials interests. 
Regulations are emerging 

Research on stem cells but not derivation of stem cells. - cannot get federal funding. 
* Now, much better understanding on stem cells. 
* 
* Collaborate 
* 
* 
* Science change, philosophy change, policy should change 
* Policy and regulation - regulations are slow to change.
* 