"The goods and services that nature provides in support of an economy"
The argument of this chapter
moral, aesthetic, cultural, and spiritual arguments. to provide compelling reasons to preserve the magnificent asepects of the natural world. 

1. Large-scale atmospheric or biospheric process or forces of nature.
	* cannot be provided incrementally, divided, or in units. 
	* whole system or forgo 
	* no meaningful way to price units of the global climate incrementally or at the margin. 
2. Goods that are or can be sold in incremental amounts, and therefore do trade in markets and thus do receive competitive prices?
	* fertile soil is a "public good" but is quite abundant relative to effective demand. 

* Context of the labor theory of value
	* from Locke to Marx
* Price coordinates economic activity in ways that lead to prosperity by providing information about conditions 

1. Concept of "marginal utility" or "competitive market price" don't apply on nature and its services
2. actually priced by extant markets
3. too plentiful to command a price at the margin
# Ecosystem services at the global scale
* Regulatory markets
	* Political authority has capped or limited the amount of pollution allowance
	* Command-and-control regulation made more consumer-friendly. 
	* Governments may create [[regulatory markets]]
	* [[allowance]] are constructed from political whole cloth and allocated accordingly. 
* [[cap-and-trade]] policy for carbon emission
	* easy to propose impossible remedies. 
	* Carbon markets
	* Difficulty to impose a regulatory market on 'greenhouse' emissions lies in finding a suitable, meaningful , and acceptable principle for setting initial allowance. 
* Locke's [[labor theory of value]]
	* Labor makes the far greatest part of the value of things we enjoy in this world: and the ground which produces the materials is scarce to be reckoned in, as any, or at most, but a very small part of it. 
	* labor accounts for the economic value of agriculture, while ecosystem services are possibly not worth a penny. 
* Locke, Ricardo, Marx
	* amount of labor inherent in an object determines its economic value. 
	* Marx: "The purely natural material in which human labor is objectified ... has no value"
* The welfare economists: [[willingness to pay(WTP)]] 
	* Preferences do contain their own normative content. 
	* Critic: Not normative, nothing of value. 

* Ecological economist: Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen 
	* essential value-giving limit on production do with the fund-flow of low-entropy resources
	* Economic growth, Natural capital
	* Nature itself has no economic value. 

physiological(labor), psychological(WTP), material(low entropy resource flows)

## critic
* intrinsic value WTP has no standing. 
* Invocations of WTP do not connect the concept "economic value with any goal or objective society as a whole has a reason to pursue"
* no role to play in valuing goods
* The concept of economic value or valuation is empty. 
# Locke and the price of land
* Natural materials traded at very small amounts relative to the price of labor and technology. 
	* cropland was free
	* Land was so plentiful relative to demand, that the price of the marginal acre was minimal. 
		* Homestead Act, 1863, US gov gagve a quarter-section free to anyone 
* If price of fertile land is negligible, the economic value of food must be charged on the account of labour. 
* Real estate: price of land is controlled by location. 
	* the closer the land is located to cities even if the uses of the land are same
	* Transportation costs will diminish the economic value of land. 
	* fertility is fall away from markets. 

# The Lauderdale Paradox 
The more freely and lavishly nature benefit is, the lower the price the marginal unit of a natural product or service will fetch. 
The principal condition for economic value is scarcity. 

* Economic value (Lauderdale)
* Value in exchange (Adam Smith) or what can be obtaine din exchange for that good. 
* Market price or value in exchange does not correlate with benefit

* Advance in technology, by driving down the production costs of a good lower its competitive market price. 
* Nature has no operating cost, benefit everyone freely, without creating scarcity. 

# The supply of fresh water
1) Residential real estate close to the sources 
2) The labor and technology need to transport resources

* Preserving habitat in the watershed and letting the ecosystem do the work of cleansing the water
* Exchange value
	* Capital improvements to gather and deliver the water 
	* Processes to restore and water purification 
# Fish and Fiber 
* The difference between the costs paid and revenue obtained represents the economic value or rent on the resource

# Biodiversity
* Economic value of biodiversity
	* The disappearance in the wild have no effect on production. 

# Objections
ecosystem services possess only a negligible "exchange value" or market price is to invite at least the following four objections. 
1. Ecosystem services are critical to the functioning of Earth.
2. The last great places 