#STP514 #Week3
How scientists make uncertainty & How scientist believe evidence is enough. 

- Bigger sophistications, more interest to wider range. 
- Why science have uncertainty?
	- objective and true, work with risk. 
	- uncertainty is a paradox. 
	- conclusion is solid based on evidence. 
		- deductive scientists, but most are imperical. 
		- induction is logical reasoning. --> possibility varies. 
	- Hypothesis or Theory 
		- No rule governing the best explanation. 
		- Cause-and Effect, How drugs are going to be.. 
- Legitimate role of values.. 


Ch 5. Inductive risks. 
* Statistical evidence, 
	* Studies in toxitology, 
	* Affects policy making. 
	* Depends on consequences. Different stakeholders, 
	* Economy is affected by the decisions.

* dangerous? How much evidence they could offer?
	* Eliot says, is a value --> Using Value decisions are determine what to regulate or not. 
	* general rule: Economy interests require more evidence. 
* What kind of errors within the evidence
	* testings, 

# Values decide

What kinds of error of industries? 
- Experiment designs. 
- Tolerate flase positives, may look like dangerous, 
	- Decisions varies. How to choose it? 
	- 95%, 5% 
- Random distribution, cautious or not. 
	- tolerate false positives. 
	- Industry protections
- It also affect public health. --> depends on value judgement. 

How much evidence is enough, what kind of evidence is tolerate. 
Illegimate, 
	trying to proove sth. 
	wishful thinking. 


Reject evidences. -- role of decisions of science

- direct and indirect values
- Create or 


Scient create evidence: direct role. 

Indirect role of values
- How much evidence required to regulate? 
- Douglas, indirect role and direct roles. 
- Scientist & policymaker communication issue. 
	- Whether to regulate or not regulate. 
	- Scientists have to decide, crucial 


* Scientists has to know when to communicate an idea to public. 
	* Congress Speech. 
	* Colbourn, open the 
		* transparency, representiveness, Engagement 
* Hidden agenda. 
	* Scientists want to make decision quickly. 


# ch 6.
- hasty decisions 
- Risk assessment quickly. 
- FDA has values with better evidence 
- Better evidence
- Saving ppl lives

Writing books - legitimate acts 


IPCC rejected hansen' wish we would be tougher. 
They would be stronger. 

> Isn't it kind of failure of peer review system in academia? 

Whether that's enough? 
- Financial interests, specific foundation 
	- disclose it 

Mid20C 
- How you do uncertainty hidden values. 
- Values are imp topic ,but ppl doesnt want to atalk about. 


Consider values attacks other ppl. 
* people may not believe, what really motivate him. 
	* Representativeness. 

Elliot didn't think 
Fluidity of values, how they changes. 
* What values we pick?
* Some values oppose to others. 
* 

Different roles of values, 


metaphor of tapestry? 
- What is legitimate & what is illegitimate?
- Communism in values varies, 
	- Barry Commoner: found evidence. 
	- Trustworthiness of evidence. 

Framing. - mismeasure of man ppl in different races. 
Steven J gould, 

small evidence supports biases --> make policy decisions more difficult. 
Choice of research project - supporting more harmonious society. 

Still get funding - strong evidences. more socially responsible research? 
we don't have money to study everything. 


What counts representive value? particular community? 
- Particular to US effects. 
- controversial ideas, contries with out democracy. 
- Democracy value. 
	- political system without ideology 
	- More engagement, more legitimate policy making. 

Agenda procedure, better result, economy, supporting diversity, ppl well being. 


Values didn't really important ones. 



- Values determine, what topic, research method, 
	- The most problematic area. 
	- Some cases are more problemati cthan others. 

Objectives of science & values? How you communicate, How much evidence is needed. 
Clean hands science & dirty hands policymaker. 

- library website. 
	- 