#STP514 #Week4
Douglas advice to policy makers. 

[[Kevin Elliot]]'s book
* what douglas is trying to work on 
* New debate non-episthemic values in science
* Ephisthemic value - clearly distinguished value. 
	* logical consistency 
	* eXISTIing theory, predictive accuracy. 
	* Explainary, emphirical adecrochy. 
	* simplicity 
* Non-ephistemic 
	* fairness, immoral values 
	* political, 
* Methodology perspective - black research included

# Douglas
[[Heather Douglas]] Heaven Longino, American philosopher
* External - everybody in society agrees 
	* what you believe
	* affective your scientific reasoning
	* moral value, 
	* Choosing hyphothesis 
		* obvious to harm people. inductive risks. accepting or rejecting hyphothesis
		* Roles of values can play 
		* Methology-how to treat, what reason to choose resaerch topic. 
	> value 가 individual scientist에게 적용되는 문제인지? 
	* do nonephisthemic values? affect influences outside science affects? 
		* not remove older valuses, 
		* not harming research subjects. 
		* All values - non ephisthemic values 
Betz
- Douglas you do need ephisthemic values. 
- how much evidence you ask for.. characterizes,, 

* Policy relevant science 
* Episthemology in knowledge, we have to use values to make how much evidence we need, 
* 
value free'

Practical implications of inductive risks
* **[[inductive risk]]**
how much evidence you need 
science haver its influence. consequences of being wrong affects 
Fruitforward 
Model, theory, etc.. Hempel: possibility of error -> inductive results
limited samples. not only of 
statistical method --> induction.
cause of dioxine, is based on statistical evidence. 
**Experiment design itself**
Evidence-based policy 

3 ways based on experimental designs, conducting experiments encounters inductive risks. 
- values play a role in selection of problems
- Direct use of knowledge requires non-episthemic values. 
- metholodological options (extransit values)

Control populations. - statistical control
over regulation, 
False positive / false negtavies is a trade-off : How willing to regulate the error. 
Science --> public policy requires scientific evidence. 
Basically deducts inductive risks. 

Are not responsible. 
You can't avoid non-ephisthemic values. playing indirect roles

- [[Direct role]] of values
	-  Choosing the goals. Is it logical interpretations? 
- [[Indirect role]]
	* Concerns the inducive risks. Revalueate the consequences of error
	* Delay, or non-decision? 

Lower the evidence - accept the false positives. 

Methodology 
* model of model. conceptual distinction. 
- poision threshold. any exposure 
- only one  

Characterization of dealing with the evidence. 
Evidence Characterization 
- inductive cases 
	- recharacterize the evidence --> possibility of errors. 
	- Looking at slides, whether sth is tumor or not. 
	- experimental design, gathering evidence, 
--> influenced chemical 
Inductive risk can araise

* Statistical, Characterization, Interpretation of Results
	* Convoy info to policymakers
	* Promoting a cncer? 
* Wha'ts happening ? promoting sth else? -- poisons could damage. 
	* Destroy model - threshold model would work
	* Mechanism - different model choose. 
	* 
Methodological, Choice of model, Statistical Cases. 
--> m
* How you characterize the evidence. Inductive risk is dangeruos brings us inductverisk.
* Interpret Results. 
	* not depends on what you think. 
	* you can't avoid indirect role of ephisthemic roles in 3 different ways. 

# Betz
Technocrat, Bets - scientist should be value-free, and policy maker is determine. 
--> Clean-hand scientist. 
Whether yo accept 
- Logical ideas of evidence, hypothesis .Bias and values in science.
- Science has values in biases 

Betz made methodological choices. How we do with errors. 
Science is not responsible, how much evidence requires. 

- Inductive risk - hypothesis relevant to cases? 
	- We already think hypothethis - plain hypothesis. always a possibility of error. 
	- Hypothesis itself is errorous. we are inefficient to give advice for hypothesis. It does not clearly express we don't knowl 
	- Explicit of error 
	- Hypothesis they are talking abuot is hedged
"Frank Scientists"
- methodological outlines of hypothesis.

- If Scientists are clearly describe, then No induced risks. 
- Identify in what describe uncertainty 
- Scientists dont have to make decisions, if you are uncertain of the limits of knowledge. 

# Elliot 
* Important role in science policy making. 
* What kind of model you choose, old problems. 
	* Science and not Science, 
	* problem demockation. 
	* What ccounts science more dozen 
	* Democation nlegitimate or illegitimate uses of non-ephisthemic values. 
* Direct and indirect distinction
* Scientists are making value judegements 
	* 