#STP514 #Week5
[[Demarcation problem]]: How to distinguish between scvience and non-science
Deal with causes;

### Reading Materials
* Paper 1. [[W5-1. New Demarcation Problem]]
* Paper 2. [[W5-2. Distinguishing between legitimate and illegitimate roles for values in transdisciplinary research]]
* Paper 3. [[W5-3. No one solution to the New demarcation problem-A view from the trenches]]

values can play illegitimate & legitimate roles 

crucial findings douglas made about 

direct - proove
indirect - standards. 
inductive risk 

illegitimate - direct role values are the reasons you choose evidence. 

dealing with non-episthemic values in science, 

direct & indirect role distinction. 
- direct & indirect distinction 
- logical & consequential. 
	- Evidence is legitimate role of weightin gconsequential error. 
	- consequentials & instinctions. 
	- legitimate values to influence decision making. to avoid sth. 

# Week4 
* Demarcation problem science and non-science. 
* Not a rigid problem, 20C scientists capturesed European American phils woory

New demarcation problem 
Do we need to talk about it? 
* pseudoscience vs science
* Lack reliability , authority, natural emerging. 
* Who is the right person to advice? 


consequential is different. 
- decisions what they want
- values can play an illegitimate role & unintended consequestion. 
If science is doing sth good, 
* Direct and indirect role. 

Indirect consequential direct role is legitimate. 
dioxine is more toxic 
transparency. engagement 
Elliot
burden douglas got
Values are being afficated by science, 
what can is happen when science is transparency. '
**Values are hidden** 

some values are clear. when scientists 
non-value can play legitimate goals. 

Policymakers make decisions with science.
some decisions are ade very quickly. quick and rough result. 
* allow a goal & legitimate
* subjective goods,
	* reasons to entry. 
	* Truth is aim of the science, scientists 
	* Scientists doesn't have to pursue choice. 
* Distinguishes btw believe and acceptance. 
	* posing to reject the truth. 
	* what we accept in science, volcano erupt 
		* risk assessment, dangers of chemical, hypothesis and models. How scientists adopt 
		* Most models are fulls of imp respects. 
* Standards of evidence in evidence. 
	* Aeseptism. Immoral not to give drugs. 
	* 임상시험할 때 대조군에게 약을 안주는게 도덕적인가? 
* Standards of evidence: legitimacy, non-epistemic value. 

Aiming to save lives, 

What poitns error possible. 
legitimate, hypothesis 
> Public pressure vs Science demarcation problem make illegitimate. 

* Professinal values scientist has, general values scietists research. 
Insulating science what counts as good system for science? 
* Moral valeus are scientific?

Filip Kitcher 
- value promote topic. Develop a value system, what they would choose, 
- Politics. how close they conform ideas. 




## Douglas: Functionalist
Industry funded science

Chem industry, with Holes evidence
- Consequentialist direct role. Interest of industry 
- Direct values 
- illegitimate use of indirect values
- revealing the negative data - Indirect and direct role ov values can be vary. 
	- Indirect - legitimate direct- illegitimate. 
	- Not distinct. 
Elliot: Avoid unpleasant consequences - directly intend to bring about good consequences. 
Douglas: direct roles of consequencial sense. 
	Dodge, cherrey pick the evidence. 
	 
* Models are in to industry or environment. 
* legitimating direct role of values, 

Deals the rigid distinction. 
- offer nice alternative. 
- Douglas view - direct & indirect roles, more general. 
- Elliot - cases. 

# New demarcation problem
dificult to fit the idea. 
How to fit different cases 

Legitimacy of values on case study. 

* move the inductive risk.  -> avoid inductive risk? 
	* how to deal with underdetermined data
	* two problems are connected. 
	* Two models equivalently supported by evidence. - how much error 
>Toxicology: threshold model. 

Why scientists bring good result, 
decision based on evidence, 
- what they believing, what they accept 
- evidence, 

Legitimate role of values, difficult to case study, 1970s 
Demarcation problem, legitimate and illegitiamte role of science. 

Scientific reasoning, 
- Constructive theory based on facts 


Koskinen, Rolin 
No quantiting science is used, value making, regulating pattern of environment. 
* are we expecting too much on science for policymaking?
* not most democratic decision anyway 
	* 