Week 10 Proposal 

Philosophy of science - politics of innovations
Assessible. week 10 , week 16 

individual meeting. 

1 or more topicl industrialization,
value of decent, 

10월말까지. 
in class presentation. - look ahead the sylabus 
1. Argument
2. Case study

up to 3 pages, what you want to do early, bibliographys as well. 3.5 weeks


Draft by monday of W16 , W16 Friday final paper


# Week 6. Industrial funded science 
blessing and curse 


* lot of interest in phylosophy of medicine. 
huge profits, 
history of biomedical, public fund. national institution of Health. Pubilc fdeeral fund reserach in bio. 

Tax payers money to researchers. 

article 1. Kevin Elliot and Holman 
Good things of Industry relates?
* Patent 
	Protect the benefit of R&D 
	liscence 
	reproduction of same ideas. 
	*1.  Political issues on patent: motivation of introducing the patent, 1980s, univs doing good research, but gov wanted to make use of the patents. 
		* Inefficient system, overseen. 
	* Ppl in univ become entrepreneurs. 
		* Is is ok to allow public money to become an entrepreneur? 
		* Distribution of wealth. 
* 2. Univ is not really transferring ideas from market.  new regulations introduced 1980. leading innovation. 
	* university, patenting their ideas 
3. Ideology, not really a free market. (legal protection)

2. Financial fundings, Government cannot fund everything. 
3. Industry can do things government don't think important

Quality of the research, - Knowledge diffusion 
Who gain benefit? - How fair is it? 

Reproducability 
 - standard & quality control

- Publication bias 
	- suppresing negative data. 

Longino - criticism of results of warn. too much focus on innovation, not focusing checking what we already have. 
Innovation - Stem cells. 
but that can be dnagerous in developing science & Tech. 
	Longino- always be biased, 

ghost writers 
scientific methd, perfecltly rational, 
- choice of topics and questions 
	- other possible options
- profits, motivates 
	- motivation of not doing '
	- create market, 
	- Quantify sth to bring you a model. 

미셸 푸코 - bio politics , medicines were used exotic powers .
Objectives to pay 
National health insurance 
- consumer experience 


Kitcher 
pharmarcy industry in particular problem 
* Choice of topic
	* Neglected diaseses  -developing countries. 
- Application to help a lot of ppl 
	- --> Fair shared justice.
	- 뎅기열? - not that simple. 

[[Well-ordered science]] 
To make the system fairer - Radical. 

Political theory of science, Small government, Big government 

New space? - commercialized space, 

Fair shared principle is so utopian 
pumping money into it

Malaria 

* Providing incentives to firms, to neglected diseases 
	* disability 

Fair-share principle has to rank disease, 
- looking neglected diseases
- we need sth more radical? --> deal with more general problems, 

What's the major goal of general roal? - 
erase the private institution and nationalize 

primedical research 

Nationalization? 
- Cuba는 의약품을 국유화했음. 
- NO FDA 
- Patents have interventions on free market. 

Institutional base drug analysis. 
- Crucial, background assumptions are connecting hypothesis. 
- beyond biological sciences data and theory 
	- Infertility 
	- powerful political moral issue 
	- tiny population -> values of research relates. To challenge assumptions from different background 
	- assumption and hypothesis connection - requires knowledge in social. diff perspectives. 
	- recognizing value and having diversity. -- innovation related. ideals of criticizing, ongoing and continuing. science and engineering as a social organizers. 
	- social knoweldge is different from individual. -- different models of social knowledge. 


Descent problems 



Social dimensions 
scientists 
government did test, 