# Weekly Reading
[[W7-1. Climate skepticism and the manufacture of doubt]]

Energy independent - Energy crisis. 
1980s 

Inductive risk : what's wrong 

What makes the motivates wrong, 
What is epistetrimetric dissent meant? Sufficient conditions? 

Full criteria 

* Consequences of wrongly rejected will be harmful 
* Criticism of 

GMO Debate
Inductive risk - and the other that requires values
* illegitmate criticism
* legitimate criticism 


Genetic 
- resistant to herbicide, pesticide. 

* Scientific problem vs non-scientific problem is creating inductive risk. 
Inductive risk --> framed? sufficiency of evidence 

Framing risks are inductive risk.
Epistemic risks are the risk of 


sufficiency of evidence 
Whether you can distinguish inductive risk and other risks of 


- power risk - when we don't get any evidence
	- Is experiment powerful enough to get data?

- inductive risk - what results after we choose a hypothesis 
	- Why there is climate skeptic? 



Gelfert - why moraly dissent is harmful? 
- epistemic and moral issue same time -> values affect. 
	- Structure of novelty
	- Geopolitic , long term, 
- Individual behavior - 
	- moral: appraisal or punished term. but not on climate 
- Climate change is hard to be defined. 
- Novel forms 


* Harried difficulty 
* Who we think we are as human beings, as a part of nature
* Chronocorpion view Geological, Influences
	* 


* cornucopian view
	* wHO WE THINK WE ARE 
* political moral requires scientific evidence. 
	* Epistemic Dissonance: conflict between evidence and ideology 
* Response of climate change denials to reconcile dissonance. 
	* de-value
	* adjusting how much they value
	* request adjusting scientific evidences.
		* --> ==Epistemic double-standards== 
* Eco-terrorism 

* Teller Case
Double standards - wasn't any evidence 
* Two incompetable standards, for deciding --> ideology discancel 
* --> Corruption --> illegitimate. 
* Anti vaccine --> double standards to doctor / vaccine opponents


Psyco-social conflicts
incompatible with evidence --



week 10 monday - deadline. 


# Values
Political, Economic 
Pro-motivations, 

psychological things, psyco-social backgrounds, 
* Conspiratiocious idealiation. 
	* Fear, near-Liberal freedoms
	* Dubious 
* What distinguishes legitimate and illegitimate dissents?
* 