[[STP601]]

[[W1. Wicked Problems, Implications for Public Policy and Management]]

# ***Wicked Problems: Implicatons for Public Policy and Management***
by Brian W. Head and John Alford

keywords: 
[[wicked problems]] [[complex problems]] [[complex problems]] [[new public management]] [[new public management]] [[problem solving]] [[problem solving]]  [[collaboration]]  [[risk and uncertainty]]

# Introduction 
* *"Wicked problems" - those that are complex, unpredictable, open ended, or intractable.
Wicked problems seem incomprehensible and resistant to solution. 

* Article adopt a hopeful stance in respect of wicked problems based on decomposing their challenging features into more nuanced categories and seeking to understand those governmental factors that make them especially difficult for policy makers, public managers, and policy scholars to addres. 
* Conclusive "solutions" are rare, it is possible to frame partial, provisional courses of action against wicked problem. 
* Explain and assess some strategies for tackling wicked problems, each encompassing a variety of alternative approaches. 

# The Nature of Wicked Problems
* Complex policy problems, in areas of risk and uncertainty emerged in 1970s
* Rational-technical approaches to dicision making, planning, and implementation. 
* ==*Rational-technical approaches* assumes the efficient and effective achievement of objectives can ==follow from adequate information, carefully specified goals and targets, and choice of appropriate methods.
1) *Perspective of Systems theory* : social and economic problems cannot be understood and addressed in isolation 
2) *Value perspectives* : social issues of modern life are grounded in value perspectives. Scientific analysis is insufficient to understand and resolve major problems (Rein, 1976)
	* [[Technical rationality]] (기술합리성) could not come to grips with the professional norms and practical knowledge of those who provide valued services to individual clients experiencing real problems.
3) Critique of *Expert-driven rational comprehensive planning*
	* *Pluralistic society*, not amenable to top-down general solutions
	* Social groups exhibit important differences in aspirations, values, and perspectives that confound the possibility of clear and agreed solution.
	* [[Dilemmas in a General Theory of Planning]] (Rittel and Webber, 1973) 
		* Engineering approach problem solving has ended. 
		* Modern society is pluralistic, rather than homogeneous
		* Not enable to top-down general solutions. 
		* Different Aspirations, Values, Perspectives confound the possibility of clear and aggred soultion. 
		* Modern social problems are "ill defined", rely on political judgement rather than scientific certitudes.
		
### 10 Characteristics of Wicked Problems
1. No definitive formulation
2. No stopping rule, No definitive solution
3. Solutions are not true or false, but good or bad --> 결과론적인 이야기인지?
4. No immediate and ultimate test of a solution
5. Every solution is a one-shot operation. No opportunity for trial and error
6. No enumerable set of potential solutions,
7. Unique problem
8. Problem as a symptom of another problem
9. Numerous ways
10. no right to be wrong. No tolerance of failure

# Challenges of Wicked Problems
## 큰정부 vs 작은정부  
* The role of the modern state has expanded, and the proper role and the scope of the government.
* Reduce 'overloaded role of government', lower community expectations abuot the capacity of governments to address a wide range of major issues
* public regulation이 아니라 individual과 communities 에게 책임을 부과. 
* 더 최근에 와서는, political leaders determine to undertake large initiatives to address complex problems. 
> Q) Wicked problem은 대개 각 parties들의 이해관계 충돌과 그에 따른 결과가 어떻게 발생할지 알기 어렵기 때문에 problem definition과 solution을 제안하기 어려워지는 문제로 보임. 때문에 Compelx problem에 대해서는 조율자로서의 정부기관의 역할이 더욱 중요하다고 생각함.  
> Collaboration과 Coordination을 시장경제에 맡긴다면 technical-rationale한 관점에서 모든 side-effect와 parties가 고려되었는지 검증이 필요함. 
## Dealing with disaster and crises
* Wicked problems to Prepare, coordinate, rapidly mobilize resources. 
* Nontraditional, Adaptive, Networked strategies to address nonroutine problems. 
* The argument that exceptional events, may require new types of policy response may be more plausible. 
	* [[Complexity]]
	* [[Interconnectedness]]
	* [[Pluralism]] 
	* [[Uncertainty]] 
* Emerge of Value difference (Roberts, 2000)
	* expansion of democracy
	* Market economies
	* International travel
	* Social exchanges
* No root cause of complexity, diversity, uncertainty, and ambiguity. 
* No single best approach to tackling problems.

## Fundamental cause of Wicked problems Example
**Stakeholder disagreement**
--> Solution: *reducing conflict through dialogue*
* Flavor participatory and dialogue-based approaches to goal setting, planning, and strategizing. 
> Q) 보통 Stakeholder diagreement에 따른 dialogue는 compensation으로 발전하기 쉽다고 생각됨.  

**Insufficient knowledge about social processes**
--> Solution: *further research and data collection* 
* Fill knowledge gaps and improve the information base for decision makers and stakeholders 
==Problem definition imply a preferred solution.==

* [Social pluralism]: Multiple interests and values of stakeholders
* [Institutional complexity]: the context of interorganizational cooperation and multilevel governance
* [Scientific uncertainty]: fragmentation and gaps in reliable knowledge 

# Complexity, Diversity, and Uncertainty
## Problem situations 
* Type 1: Definition of the problem & Solution are clear to decision maker.
* Type 2: Definition of the problem is clear, but Solution is not. 
* Type 3: Both problem & solution are unclear. 

* Type 1 situations constitute *tame* problem
* Type 2 & Type 3 are *Wicked* problem

[[Tame problem]] Currently regarded as capable of standard or routine solutions. 
* Low level of complexity and disputation
* Some problems may come to seen as more controversial or more complex. 

## Problem & Solution
* Institutional history and stakeholder perspective shapes problem and solution. (Kingdon, 1995; Sabatier, 2007)
	* Constrained or bounded rationality
	* Lack of consensus differences in values and experiences
* Secure knowledge is challenge of dealing with ambiguity, uncertainty, and value disagreements
	* e.g.) [[cognitive-analytical challenge]]
	* communicative, political, and institutional challenges to building a more shared understanding. 
	* The more [[actors]], [[groups]], and [[organizational units]] involved in a complex issue increases, the need for high-quality management and leadership processes become more crucial. (Colkin, 2006; Feldman & Khademian, 2007)
		* [[Actors]] may have divergent interests or values that prompt them to be in conflict about the nautre of the problem and how to deal with it. 
* The more complex and diverse the situation, the more wicked the problem. 
	* ==Complexity and diversity create higher levels of uncertainty or ambiguity==
		* Institutional arramgements
		* Group behavior
		* Ideologies
		* Issue histories
		* Research findings
		* Media biases
	> >You don't so much solve a wicked problem as you help stakeholders negotiate shared understanding and shared meaning abuot the problem and its possible solutions. The objective of the work is coherent action, not final solution.

* Public sector managers and poilcy analysts establish enabling conditions, whereby provisional solutions can be discussed and decided. 
	* Public decision makers claim to offer solutions to wicked problems by redefining them or by advocating a preferred policy instruments such as markets to handle some of the trade-offs. 

# Public Management's Shortcomings in Dealing With Wicked Problems
* Tackling wicked problems is challenging not only because of their inherent complexity but also because the mechanisms of public-sector mangement tend to complicate and hamstring efforts to resolve such issues.
## Hierarchy of Public administration 
* *Triaditinonal hierarchical forms of public administration* have not been conductive to grappling productively with wicked problems. 
	* *Hierarchical forms* of organization and systems of control, focused on input monitoring and process compliance. 
	* Limit the opportunities to think expansively about policy issues of the type that might be thrown up by wicked problems. 
	* The tendency of recruit administrative employees at entry level and retain them in the same organization, and to foster specialization in areas of professional expertise made each department a cultural fortrees. 
	--> Cultural Silos or Stovepipes
	> Q) 우리회사의 경우, 순환근무를 통한 직부 전환이 필수적인 정책으로 있음. 타 직부에서 근무를 통해 현장, 관리, 행정 업무를 경험하기 비교적 쉬운 환경. 다만, 3~4년씩의 순환근무체계는 Expert가 아니라 Manager를 키우기에 용이한 환경으로, 각 지부의 경험을 반영하는 것은 용이하지만 실제 일을 할 수 있는 사람이 적어진다는 단점이 있음. 
	> 이를 해소하고자 매니저로 성장하는 직군과 현장 expert가 되기 위한 직군을 구분해두었지만, 각 직군간의 차이로 인한 불균형이 발생하기도 하며, 곧 직부를 이동할 사람이라는 관점으로 업무에 임하는 등의 문제를 내재하고 있음. 
	> 특히, 공공정책 등의 전문성이 필요한 분야에서는 조직원 개인의 위치를 이동하는 등의 방법으로는 전문성을 키우기 쉽지 않을 것으로 예상됨. 앞으로 관리론을 어떤 형태로 발전시켜야할지? 
	
	* Budgetary process that featured line item appropriations of inputs. 
	* *Muddling through approach*, that cuold not address the big issues in a comprehensive way 
* *New Public Management(NPM)*, in 1980s, could not resolve wicked problems. 
	* Intraorganizational focus - Managerialism or corporate management
	* contractualist focus entailing purchaser-provider splits, outsourcing, and privatization
	
## Decision-making approaches: Managerialism
* [Managerialism]: Managing for results
	* Public-sector organization's structure, coordination mechanisms, financial management, staffing, and rewards toward the achievement of results, broadly conceived as either sets of program purposes or as groups of people served by programs. 
	* Multidivisional form of leading private-sector corporations, with various business units, controolled through setting and monitoring performance outcomes. 
* **Central to managerialism** has been a rational-technical approach to making decisions, adopting corporate strategy methods from the private sector. 
	* Each public organization has 
		* settled goals 
		* a supportive political environment
		* control over the resources
		* capabilities necessary to deliver on the goal
	--> None apply in the presence of *wicked problems* 
## The structure and process of decision
* Managerialism allows flexibilities in find alternative means of achieving the desired results. 
	* Managers responsible for a specific set of programs
	* The corporate management framework tends to isolate from each other those programs that may actually have subterranean connections in respect to certain wicked problems. 
* [[Fragmentation]] (단편화, 분할) manifests itself...
	* Program-based subcultures, competing policy priorities, turf wars within and between agencies. 
## Fragmentation as contractualism
* Fragmentation was intensified by [[contractualism]] (계약론, 계약주의)
1. Contract-based service-delivery models tended to shift the focus back along the program logic chain. 
2. Contractualism entailed separating service-delivery functions from those devoted to formulating policy, deciding what services were needed, and arranging with providers to deliver them. 
	* *Policy-Delivery separation*, or *Purchaser-Provider split*
	* Providers: private-sector firms, voluntary community organization
3. Contractualism entailed the establishment of competition between service providers. 
* [[NPM]] has given potential scope for less linear approaches
	* top-down to bottom-up consulative mechanism in formulation
	* There are purpose setting and decision making process other than *rational goal-directed model.*
	
# Strategies for Dealing with Wicked Problems
* More research, More science are not sufficient response. 
	* They make Evidence-informed policy making, which is valuable. 
* ==Broader ways of thinking about variables, options, and linkages==
* ==New models of leadership that better appreciate the distributed nature of information, interests, and power

## Broader ways of thinking about the Variables, Options, and Linkage
* [[Holistic approaches]] (거시적 접근)
	1. Frame reflection (Schon and Rein, 1994)
		* [[Intractable disputes]]: different frames and value perspectives rather than in disagreements about scientifically verifed knowledge
		* [[Metaframe]] builds frame of reference deployed on key actors
		* The role of researchers and policy analysts: delineating the factors shaping a complex situation, mapping the complex patterns of causality at work, and calibrating the likely effects of new interventions or programs. 
	2. [[Systems thinking]] 
		* Social knowledges are provisional and context dependent.
	3. [[Complexity theory]]
		- How **adaptive management** is required to respond flexibly to the changing social and institutional contexts and challenges
		- How policy networks can positively respond to rapidly changing circumstances
# Collaboraton and Coordination
1. nature of the problem, and its underlying causes can be better, 
2. Collaboration can found provisional soultions to the problem can be found and agreed upon, not only because a wider networks offers more insights but also because greater cooporation improves the prospect that diverse parties may reach an understanding about what to do. 