#ReviewNote #STP601 #Week4 by Yunji Woo
Foundation of public administration and policy in South Korea
by Keun Namkoong and In Chul Kim

Constitutionlal structures across various countries
- structure of central-local government relations and forms of government
	- Federal: central/national government & sub-national government devision

Constitutional framework was a presidential system mixed with a parliamentary system
# Historical overview of Korean Constitution and political system 
- President must act as the head of the state, elected indirectly by the National Assembly, and share executive power with the cabinet
- 제 2 공화국: pure form of parliamentary system in 1960, 
- 제 3 공화국 : 박정희, 1963. 1972, 계엄 선포, direct election of the president 폐지.
Political development in Korea has been continuous and has proceeded through many struggles. 
# Constitutional struectures of Korea
## Unitary state 

This week's article 
The article from Dante, B. (2014) illustrates who the policy actors are, and what is their role and resources. Namkoong K. and Kim (2019) Provide an case-based research of Korean administration, which describes the policy actors. 
The article describes public administration in South Korea in historical views. The Korean Constitution started with a presidential system mixed with a parliamentary system, however, the administration structure had experienced dynamic changes related to politics. 
One interesting fact was that civil society did not intensively participate in the policy making process. Publics could achieve transformation of politic structure; for example, president Lee stepped down in response to strong revolutionary protest demonstrations, and the democratization of the Korean political system was also one result of protestants. However, policy has remained as a role of elites. General public participated through election, whereas, issue voting was not remarkable among Korean voters. 
Another interesting point is the protest demonstrations lead by students and intellectuals. Since government service has been considered as a highly honored profession, and an elevated social status is conferred upon individuals who rise thruogh its ranks. 

The role of the National Assembly has considerably increased after the democratization of the Korean political system, the policy capacity of the Kroean bureaucracy has decreased significantly. 



presidents of Korea exerted moer influence in policy making than the presidents of other countries for four reasons. 1) Korean president can exercise influence through the ruling party, which is very well disciplined. 2) presidential power in Korea has been firmly institutionalized from the beginning of the republic, while the political party system has been relatively weak and fragile. 3) substantial power, 



References
Namkoong, K., and Kim, IC(2019), Foundation of Public Administration and Policy in South Korea.