#ReviewNote #STP601 #Week5

Prior studies figured organization sturcture and activities are results of rational planning, however, new institutionalism explains organizations are influenced from each other, which sometimes infers irrational results. This week's articles review on organizational isomorphism in public sector(Shipan et al, 2012), and private sector(DiMaggio et all, 1983).
The complexity in policy makings are resolved from the insights from past, and by competitable other agencies. The notion of policy diffusion helps to understand policy advocacy and policy changes in particular discipline. Globalization has brought low barriers to communication, so that policy diffusion is not limited in geographical clustering, but includes goverments compete and lesson learns. Centralization and decentralization decisions, are made based on political considerations. 
According to Weber's theory, the institutional behavior would be tightly coupled to functions of an organizations to win the competition. However, new Institutionalism explains the structure and behavior of an institution is often a reflection of rationalized norm of society. The article by DiMaggio describes how institutions become similar to others in isomorphism. There are three types of isomorphism: coercive isomorphism, mimic isomorphism, and Normative processes. The coercive isomorphism results from legislations or government forces. Ambiguous goals drags mimic organizational models. The normative processes are based on professionalization and structuralization. 
Although both articles described public and private in separate, public organizations are also influenced from private sectors. For example, blind hire system was first initialized in Samsung, and then publics have followed  the recruitment model after figuring success. Due to the highly structurized hierarchy systems, publics are often defensive to changes. Isomorphism and policy diffusions help the acceptances of new models from public sectors easier.
Isomorphism is a useful method to enhance new models, however it shall be used carefully to avoid decoupling. Organizations seek 'best practice' cases to catch up the trend. However, the organizational characteristics such as organizational culture, occupational networks, and hierarchy restrict the adaptations. 
In the same context, a coercion results from the policy diffusion sometimes apply as a threat to private sector, especially on big science and emerging technologies that highly interact with agencies of the state. The flexibility and adaptations of the organizational field should be highly considered for policy makers. 

Discussion Questions

1. Sometimes the institutions hesitate to lead the organizational changes, and wait for isomorphism. What do you think is beneficial for an organization; being a 1st precursor or 2nd follower?  
2. Some industries (e.g. Tech industries) are highly initiative to new technologies, and tries to follow up new business item, which shows a competitive isomorphism. Unlike the mechanism of coercive isomorphism, the public agencies tails the dynamic changes on this area. How could government organizations actively manage this disciplines to fabricate a standardization and quality management? 

References

[1] DiMaggio, Paul J., and Walter W. Powell. (1983). “The Iron Cage Revisited: Institutional isomorphism and collective rationality in organizational fields.” American sociological review, 147-160.
[2] Shapin, Charles R., and Volden, Craig. (2012). “Policy Diffusion: Seven Lessons for Scholars and Practitioners.” Public Administration Review, 72(6), 788-796
[3] 이창길. "세계화 과정에서 정책의 동형화 메커니즘 분석: 인력감축, 정보공개 및 민영화 사례를중심으로." 행정논총 제 46권 4호(2008): 1-26.