#STP601 #Week5
쇠우리 iron cage
개신교의 현세금욕주의적 윤리가 퇴색하고 오직 자본주의 체제의 껍데기만 활성화되어 관성으로 굴러가게 되는 상황. 

0. 
The article has an interesting title. What is an iron cage, and why would we revisit the term iron cage to explain organization theory? I'll provide a short notion of the term. 

1. 
According to the book The protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism, Max weber explains human being life of capitalism in protestantism.

As a man grow up, and begin to earn money, he may actively accept protestantism that calls occupation is a personal goal of his life. Because As a protestant, one would achieve a selvation through the work. The most important value of this type of man is to earn money, so he think in rational way to optimize workflow with momentum of asceticism. 

Although we are not a protestant, in capitalism society, we would work in rationalist order to earn money, which has now became an iron cage. As a result, the ethics of protestant such as asceptism degrades, but the figure of captialism survives as an inertial. 

And so is the organization. To survive from the competition, organizations develop its system, and the bureaucracy, which even concrete the iron cage to individuals. 

돈을 벌기 시작하면서 직업을 소명으로 삼는 프로테스탄티즘을 적극적으로 받아들여 행복과 쾌락을 멀리하는 세속적 금욕을 실천한다. rational 자본주의 정신으로 살아가면서, 자본주의 정신과 프로테스탄티즘이 서로 연관이 있는 것처럼 여겨진다. 인간은 구원을 받기 위해 직업을 소명으로 받아들이고 열심히 살아가지만 결국 자신이 만든 강철 우리에 갇혀서 일생을 마치게 된다. 

2. 
Let's return to the article. Why author mentioned 'iron cage revisit' to explain organization theory?

Although old organizational theory questioned why are there so many kinds of organizations?, 
The article investigate why organizations are so homogeneous with each other. 
The organizations share blabla~~ that can be interpreted as connectedness, and structural equivalence. 

3.
The term 'isomorphism' explains homogenous of organizations. 
Iomorphism is a constraining ~. 
There are two types of isomorphism: one is competitive and the other is institutional. 

4.
**Competitive ismorphism** results when open competition exists. 
This is related to Weber's bureaucratization theory, which explains organization system is formed from rational ways. 
Since organizations share their components, Market competition~. are main causes for competitive isomorphism. 

However, the new institutionalism explains the

competition of modern world of organizatin. 
**Institutional isomorphism** 
explains, ~
This is different from competition, since many groups are already formed their system, and open competition is no more exists in old groups


5. Mechanism of institutional Isomorphism Change
Coercive isomorphism
Mimetic isomorphism 
Normative Isomorphism result by professionalization and structuralization. 



결론 

Now, Let's return to the initial questions. 
Why there are so many organizations? and Whey are they similar with each other?

Old theories explain in Natural Selection and Elite Control model. 
Natural selection assumes an open competition world, so that structure of organizations were naturally selected. However, from empirical researches, we can find less efficient organizational forms do persist. 

On the other hand, Elite control model is an explanation of key elites guide ~. 
However, since the complexity of modern organizations make control difficult, an elite group cannot manage the organization thoroughly. 

Now, we have learned institutional isomorphism. 
Organizations are experiencing coercive, mimetic, and normative forces that makes themselves more homogeneous. 
Through this process, we can understand ~. 




collective rationality 
organization field 
