#STP601 #Week6
# Reading 1) A stakeholder analysis 
by Zsuzsa Varvasovsky and Ruairi Brugha ^[[Varvasovszky, Z and Brugha, R. (2000). A Stakeholder Analysis, Health Policy and Planning,15(3), 338-345]]

# Intro
## Stakeholder analysis
* [[Stakeholder]] Approach, a tool or set of tools for generating knowledge about actors: individual and organizations
* To udnerstand their behavior, intensions, interrelations and interests
* Assessing the influence and resources they bring to bear on decision-making or implementation process
## Purpose of Stakeholder analysis
* Feasibility of future policy directions
* Facilitate the implementation of projects
* Develop strategies for managing important stakeholders
## Aim of the Paper
* Discuss a set of interrelated questions to be considered before undertaking a stakeholder analysis
	* What are the purpose and time-dimensions of interests
	* What are the time-frame and resources available?
	* In what cotnexts and at what level will it be undertaken?
* Explain the process of conductingthe analysis, by literature & empirical studies in Alcohol policiy in Hungary
* Caveats and limitatons around data vaidity and erliability are discussed

# Preliminary questions
## What is the aim and time dimension of the analysis?
* Identify the scope and time dimensions: *Past, Present, Future*
* Past
	* Retrospective dimension 
	* (Broad) Comprehensive analysis on policy-making process 
* Present
	* (Narrow) Goal-oriented, Implementation of a specific policy
	* (Short period) Strategic planning to scan current, or predict the future organizational environment 
* Future
	* Prospective dimension
* Characteristics of stakeholder analysis
	* To increase the chances of project success through informing design, preparation, and implementaion
	* Evaluation, during or after project completion
	* The result of analyses can be used to develop project logical frames, and useful in identifying assumptions on which the success or failure of project outcomes depend. 
	* less complex and time-consuming endeavor

## What is the context?
* Understanding the culture and [[Context]] is necessary for deciding how to interact with stakehholders, collect and analyze data
	* Managerial, administrative policy culture & traditions
	* Ethnic and cultural affiliations make demands on politicians to maintain communication channels
	* Cultural and interpersonal communication can affect the success of analysis

## At what level will the analysis take place?
* Research levels: ==Local, Regional, National, International==
* Local level analysis
	* All stakeholders can be reached and interviewed individually
* Supra-national analysis (National & International)
	* Review of policy documents, reports and existing data

# Preparation
## Analysts and analysis teams
Analyst: ==Individual or team==
* Analyze & quantify qualitative data
* Team: Compensate for and neutralize individual biases
	* More objective
	* Perspectives of stakeholder positions and iterests
	* assessment of levels of resources
	* influence they can bring to bear
* Single analysts
	* More uniform approach in collecting qualitative data
	* valid cross-comparisons of data
* Analysts: ==Insiders or Outsiders==
	* Are they involved in the project? 

*Managers (insiders) can sometimes hold strong opinions about stakeholders which conflict with generalised perceptions of the environment. The external analyst can play a valuable role as an 'independent auditor' of those stakeholders* (Crosby, 1992)

* Cultural insiders
	* Famalier with the local modes of verbal and non-verbal communication 
	* Good understanding environment and context
* Outsiders
	* Gain insight how their assumptions may be biase the analyst
--> Mixed team of insiders & Outsiders to analyse the environment.  

# Conducting the analysis
## Identifying and approaching stakeholders
* Identify the different components of the policy issue or problem. 
* [[Stakeholders]]: Actors who have an interest in the issue under consideration. 

## Data collection methods and data
* Data collection methods
	* Face-to-Face interviews
		* Semi-structured interview
		* Contemporaneous note-taking
	* Published and unpublished documents, reports, policy statements, internal regulations of organization
		* Interviews provide opportunity to access unpublished documents
> 인터뷰는 단체장보다는 단체 소속 개인에게 접근하기 쉬운 방식으로, 공식적인 데이터보다 개인의 주관적이며 경험적인 데이터를 확보하기 쉽다. 따라서, 인터뷰어의 bias와, 기관 내부 culture와 context에 따른 인터뷰 대상의 bias의 영향을 고려하여 데이터의 품질을 관리해야 하며, 인터뷰어의 역량이 데이터 품질에 큰 영향을 줄 수 있다. 대상 표본 설정, 인터뷰방법(1:1, 1:n 대면, 인터넷 설문 등), 질문지 구성 등에 따라 다른 데이터를 획득할 수 있다. 
> 반면, 출판된 문서, 내부 규범, 리포트 등의 문헌 조사는 공식적인 데이터를 수집할 수 있어 보다  명확하고 신뢰할 수 있는 정보를 수집할 수 있다. 하지만, 기관의 내부 자료를 수집하기 어려우며, 접근이 가능하더라도 비공식적인 자료를 사용하는 경우 정확한 정보를 담고 있지 않거나, 보안 이슈, 엠바고 등의 사유로 연구 결과를 출판하기 어려울 수 있다. 
# Organizing and analyzing data
* Outputs
	* Constructed to quantify stakeholder interacts 	
* Feedback
	* Build trust and enable to correct & qualify 
	* Cons: influence and later the stakeholder's position, reducing the utility of the analysis
## Present findings (Output)
* Characteristics of stakeholders 
	* ex) matrix tables or map
	* Involvement, Interest, Influence, Position, Impact ... 
	* Levels of influence and support 
		* Changes in time-line
* Short-term pragmatic goal: Implementation of policy, Identification and assessments 
## Using the finidngs
* Identify the optimal strategies for managing other stakeholders, 
* Identify current and future opportunities and threats'
* Strategies of stakeholders
	* Supportive - Involve
	* Mixed - Collaborate
	* Non-supportive - Defend
	* Marginal - Monitor

# Limitations, Validity, and Reliability
* The environment, the cotnext of the analysis, stakeholder interests, positions, alliances, and influence changes over time.
* The analyst should consider:
	* The position of a respondent in an organization
	* How stable or provisional that position may be
	* Responses reflect individual views which may contradict or run counter to those of the organziation 
	* The degree to which a stakeholder has implicit or covert position on an issue
> Stakeholder analysis 연구는 각 기관의 정체성을 정의하고 정책 분야에 있어 기관의 향후 방향을 제시하여 Policy-maker에게 인사이트를 제공할 수 있다. 또한, 각 기관에 소속된 개인에게도 직간접적인 영향을 줄 수 있어, organizational culture & context의 변화에도 기여할 수 있을 것이다. 
> 본 논문은 정확한 분석을 하기 위한 방법론을 제시했지만, 어떻게 연구 결과를 publish하고, 분석 대상인 기관에 배포하여 response를 이끌어낼 수 있는지에 대한 논의도 함께 진행되어야 한다. 

> **Research Question**
> Which stage of policy cycle is most efficient for stakeholder analysis? What makes stakeholder analysis efficient for policy making process? How could the research enhance the success of policy & politics? 
