#STP601 #Week6
# Reading 2) Policy Success, Policy Failure, and Grey Areas In-Between
by Allan McConnell ^[McConnell, A. (2010) ‘Policy Success, Policy Failure and Grey Areas In-Between’, Journal of Public Policy. 30(3), pp.345–362.]
# Literature review
1. Literature on policy evaluation and policy improvement is close to [[Lasswell]] (1956, 1971) vision of a policy sciences which contributes to societal betterment. 
	* Criteria of policy: Guidance to policy scientists to bring about improved capability in the formatinon and execution of policy
	* Provide info for decision making process. 
2. Concept of [[Public value]]
	* Mark Moore(1995) Assumptions
		* Government tends to be wasteful and bureaucratic
	* Public Values
		1) Production of things of value to clients and stakeholders
		2) Legitimacy in beng able to attract resources and athority fro the political authorisign environent
		3) being operationally and administratively feasible 
	> 이 주제는 이번 주 research question: Why is the problem important?와 연관있다. Policy와 Public value의 관계를 명확히 설명하여 정책의 legitimacy를 확보하는 것이 Policy success의 주요 요건 중 하나인 것으로 예상된다. 
3. Good practice in the process of policy making and management
	* Implication of 'Policy success'
		* Policy design, Deliberation, Public engagement, Incremental bargaining, Problem definition, People skills
4. Political aspects of policy have implications for what constitutes political success
	* Evaluating policies in terms of their ability to produce benefits for particular political actors or groups 

## Three strands of policy: The basis for Succeeding and Failing
**[[Process]]**
==Which societies could and should make collective choices in the public interests==
* Researches 
	* Lasswell(1956), Lindblom(1959, 1965), Easton(1953, 1965)
	* Deliberative engagement, Policy design, Resolving controversies, Solving problem, Policy cycle ... 
* Governments do process and they may succeed and/or fail

**[[Program]]**
==What governments do, Concrete form of generalized intentions on statements of policy==

**[[Politics]]**
The choice of goverment have consequences for the reputation and elctoral prospects of politicians, and their capacity to manage political agenda. 

## Defining policy success
[[Policy Success]]
* ==A policy is successful if it achieves the goals that proponents set out to achieve and attracts no criticism of any significance and/or support is virtually universal.== 
	* Government can and sometimes does attain the goals it seeks in each of its three realms of policy. 
	* Not everyone will perceive government's achievemens as successful
	* Heuristic purposes, The tension between the obejctive and dimensions of success. 

# The spectrum from Policy success to Policy Failure
Typology of Policy Success, [[Political success]] 
1. [[Process Success]]
	1) Preservation of government's policy goals and instruments
	2) Attaining legitimacy through a general acceptance that the policy has been produced through means that are legal and normal procedures
	3) Marshalling of a sustainable coalition of supporting interests and not just an ad hoc coalition securing the initial adoption of a policy
	4) Success may stem from a process which encourages innovation 
2. [[Program success]]
	* Government stance produces the results desigred by government
		* Implementation that produces the desired outcome
	* Measure of success
		* Satisfying criteria in particular policy community
		* Efficiency in public budgeting ... 
3. [[Political success]]
	* Outcome of policy provide significant political benefits, enhance electoral prospects and reputation of the government  
	* [[Manageable]] law and order problem 
		<-> Opposing [[wicked problems]] ex) long-term racial discrimination and urban deprivation
4. [[Resilient success]]
	* Opposition and shortcomings make second best outcome.
	* Government achieves its policy in broad terms notwithstanding small modifications and setbacks.
5.  [[Conflicted success]]
	* Achieved goals in some points, but has to backtrack, or make modifications 
	* Substantial controversy, galvanizing opposition parties, and forcing government into a defence of core values and aims of the program.
6.  [[Precarious success]]: edge of failure. 
	* Small achievement, short of intensions, and controversy is substantial. 
	* Failure and termination
	* Precarious political successes are a substantial liability for government. 
		* Costs are greater. 
7. Failure
	==A policy fails if it does not achive the goals that proponents set out to achieve, and opposition is great and/or support is virtually non-existent.==
	* Consequence of the *Mobilization of bias*
	* Government is defeated i nits ambition to enact legislation or make a decision 
	* Politicians andparties that sponsor also failed programs. 

## Conradictons between different forms of success
* **Successful Process vs Unsuccessful Programs**
	* to get decisions taken and legislation passed, using executive powers to steer the policymaking process towards such goals. 
	* Policymaking without sufficient checks and balances is prone to producing flawed policies because goals and/or instruments have not been refiend in order to produce workable policies through incremental bargaining, deliberative engagement, partisanship and plurality and careful policy design. 

* **Successful Politics vs Unsuccessfl Programs**
	* Political success necessiates programs that leave much to be desired i nterms of tackling policy problems. 
	* Criterias of political success
		* Enhancing government or leader's reputation / electoral prospects at the expense of programs 
		* Easing the business of governing through the agenda amangement of wiched issues
			* symbolic or placebo elements

* **Successful Progarms vs Unsuccessful Politics**
	* Not always result in political success
	* Successful programs mayeve nrebuond on government agendas because of unintended consequences of an excess of success