Fall 2022 
KAIST Graduate School of Science & Technology Policy #Syllabus #STP510
# **STP510A: National Innovation System**
Tuesday 4PM
So Young Kim (soyoungkim.syk@gmail.com)

# Course Outline
Why NIS? Once a fad of policy discourses (especially in the 1990s and early 2000s), is it still relevant? Each of the term, National Innovation System, speaks to voluminous research on what innovation is, why it matters, and how nations/regions/sectors/firms/individuals innovate. While the term itself has been appropriated as a tool (or criticized often as a rhetorical slogan) to promote proactive policy agenda at various levels, our understanding of what constitutes innovation, how it takes place, and what impacts/consequences it holds for socioeconomic progress still lags behind the reality, despite a half-century of scholary research with distinctively interdisciplinary work of the last three decades.

This course examines conceptual issues and theoretical challenges in understanding the sources, patterns, trajectories, and impacts of innovation together with actors and contexts of innovation.

# Course Evaluation
Reading & Discussion (30%): Students will take turns to lead class discussion for each class, although all students are expected to finish the readings. For this class discussion, students will prepare a short summary of the assigned readings and a couple of questions or issues to discuss.

Research Prospectus (40%): Students will submit a tentative research proposal (2,500 words except references/tables/figures) relevant to the course topics by the midterm, which will be submitted again as a final version (4,000 words except references/tables/figures) after refinement in the final week.

Presentation (30%): Students will present their tentative prospectus for feedback right after the midterm week.

# Course Schedule
### Week 1 (8/30): Introduction
-   Fagerberg, Jan, and Bart Verspagen. 2009. Innovation studies – The emerging structure of a new scientific field. _Research Policy_ 38: 218-233.

### Week II (9/6): Nature & Sources of Innovation
-   Dosi, G. 1988. The Nature of the Innovative Process. In _Technical Change and Economic Theory_ edited by G. Dosi, C. Freeman, G. Silverberg, and L. Soete. Pinter.
-   Salter, Ammon, and Olivery Alexy. 2014. The Nature of Innovation. In _The Oxford Handbook of Innovation Management_ edited by Mark Dodgson, David M. Gann, and Nelson Philips. Oxford University Press.

### Week III (9/13): National Innovation Systems: History/Concept/Models
-   **Lundvall, B-A. 2016. Postcript: Innovation Systems Research: Where It Came From and Where It Might Go. In** _**The Learning Economy and the Economics of Hope**_ **by Bengt-Åke Lundvall. Anthem Press.**
-   Edquist, Charles. 2012. Systems of Innovation: Perspectives and Challenges. In _The Oxford Handbook of Innovation_ edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson.
-   **Godin, Benoit. 2006. The Linear Model of Innovation: The Historical Construction of an Analytical Framework.** _**Science, Technology, and Human Values**_ **31(6): 639-667.**
-   **Sharif, Naubahar. 2006. Emergence and Development of the National Innovation Systems Concept.** _**Research Policy**_ **35: 745-766.**
-   Carlsson, B. 2003. Innovation Systems: A Survey of the Literature from a Schumpeterian Perspective. In _The Companion to Neo-Schumpeterian Economics_ edited by A. Pyka. Edward Elgar.
-   Freeman, C. 1995. The ‘National Systems of Innovation’ in Historical Perspective. _Cambridge Journal of Economics_ 19:5-24.
-   Nelson, Richard R. ed. 1993. _National Innovation Systems: A Comparative Analysis_. Ch 1: Technical Innovation and National Systems. Oxford University Press.
-   Lundvall, B-A. 1992. _National Innovation Systems: Towards a Theory of Innovation and Interactive Learning_. Pinter.

### Week IV (9/20): Regional Innovation Systems
-   **Asheim, Rjorn, and Meric G. Gertler. 2012. The Geography of Innovation: Regional Innovation Systems. In** _**The Oxford Handbook of Innovation**_ **edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**
-   **Feldman, Maryann P., and Dieter Kogler. 2010. Stylized Facts in the Geography of Innovation. In the** _**Handbook of the Economics of Innnovation**_ **edited by Bronwyn Hall and Nathan Rosenberg. North Holland.**
-   **Hassinki, Robert. 2009. Locked in decline? On the role of regional lock-ins in old industrial areas. In** _**Handbook of Evolutionary Economic Geography**_**, edited by B. Boschma and R. Martin. Edward Elgar.**
-   Feldman, M. P. 2000. Location and Innovation: The New Economic Geography of Innovation, Spillovers, and Agglomeration. In _The Oxford Handbook of Economic Geography_ edited by G. L. Calrk, M. P. Feldman, and M. S. Gerler. Oxford University Press.
-   Cooke, P. 1998. Introduction: Origins of the Concept. In _Regional Innovation Systems_ edited by H. Braczyk, P. Cooke, and M. Heidenreich. University of College London Press.
-   Cooke, Philip, Mikel Gomez Uranga, and Goio Etxebarria. 1997. Regional innovation systems: Institutional and organizational dimensions. _Research Policy_ 26: 475-491.
-   Saxenian, AnnaLee. 1994. _Regional Advantage: Culture and Competition in Silicon Valley_. Harvard University Press.

### Week V (9/27): Sectoral Innovation Systems
-   **Lee, Keun, and Franco Malerba. 2017. Catch-up cycles and changes in industrial leadership:Windows of opportunity and responses of firms and countries in the evolution of sectoral systems. Research Policy 46: 338-351.**
-   **Malerba, Franco, and Pamela Adams. 2014. Sectoral Systems of Innovation. In** _**==The Oxford Handbook of Innovation Management==**_ **edited by Mark Dodgson, David M. Gann, and Nelson Philips. Oxford University Press.** ==검색이 안됨. Ch14==
-   Mowery, David C., and Richard R. Nelson. eds. 1999. _Sources of Industrial Leadership: Studies of Seven Industries_. Cambridge University Press.
-   Malerba, F. and L. Orsenigo. 1997. Technological regimes and sectoral patterns of innovative activities. _Industrial and Corporate Change_ 6: 83-117.
-   Nelson, Richard R. 1994. The Co-evolution of Technology, Industrial Structure, and Supporting Institutions. _Industrial and Corporate Change_ 3: 47-63.
-   **Pavitt, K. 1984. Sectoral Patterns of Technological Change: Towards a Taxonomy and a Theory.** _**Research Policy**_ **13:343-73.**

### Week VI (10/4): Firm-Level Innovation
-   **Laxonick, William. 2012. The Innovative Firm. In** ==_**The Oxford Handbook of Innovation**_ ==**edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**  Ch02
-   **Burcharth, Ana L., and John P. Ulhol. 2011. Structural approaches to organizing for radical innovation in established firms.** _**Entrepreneurship and Innovation**_ **12(2): 117-125.**
-   Teece, David J. 2010. Technological Innnovation and the Theory of the Firm: The Role of Enterprise-Level Knolwedge, Complemetarities, and (Dynamic) Capabilities. In the _Handbook of the Economics of Innnovation_ edited by Bronwyn Hall and Nathan Rosenberg. North Holland.
-   **Laursen, Keld, and Ammon Salter. 2005. Open for Innovation: The Role of Openness in Explaining Innovatoin Performance among U.K. Manufacturing Firms.** _**Strategic Management Journal**_ **27: 131-150.**
-   Ahuja, G., and R. Katila. 2001. Technological acquisitions and the innovation performance of acquiring firms: a longitudinal study. _Strategic Management Journal_ 22: 197-230.
-   O’Sullivan, M. 2000. The Innovative Enterprise and Corporate Governance. _Cambridge Journal of Economics_ 24(4): 393-416.

### Week VII (10/11): Universities in Innovation
-   **Mowery, David, and Bhaven N. Sampat. 2012. Universities in National Innovation Systems. In** ==_**The Oxford Handbook of Innovation==**_ **edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**  
-   Foray, Dominique, and Francesco Lissoni. 2010. University Research and Public-Private Interaction. In _Handbook of the Economics of Innnovation_ edited by Bronwyn Hall and Nathan Rosenberg. North Holland.
-   **Perkmann, Markus, and Kathryn Walsh. University-industry relationship and open innovation: Towards a research agenda. International Journal of Management Review 9(4): 259-2580.**
https://doi-org.libra.kaist.ac.kr/10.1111/j.1468-2370.2007.00225.x
-   Etzkowitz, H. 2003. Research groups as ‘quasi-firms’: the invention of the entrepreneurial university. _Research Policy_ 32(1): 109-121.
-   Mowery, David. 2002. _Ivory Tower and Industrial Innovation: University-Industry Technology Tranfer Before and After the Bayh-Dole Act in the United States_. Stanford University Press.
-   **Etzkowitz, H., and L. Leydesdorff, 2000. The Dynamics of Innovation: From National Systems and “Mode 2” to a Triple Helix of University-Industry-Government Relations. Introduction to the special “Triple Helix” issue of Research Policy 29: 109-123.**
-   Godin, B., and Y. Gingras. 2000. The Place of Universities in the System of Knowledge Production. _Research Policy_ 29: 273-278.
-   Etzkowitz, H., and L. Leydesdorff, 2000. _Universities in the Global Economy: A Triple Helix of Academy-Industry-Government Relation_. Croom Helm.
-   Mansfield, E. 1991. Academic Research and Industrial Innovatoins. _Research Policy_ 20: 1-12.
    
### Week VIII (10/18): Midterm Week
Tentative research prospectus by October 23rd (Sunday)

### Week IX (10/25): Research Prospectus Draft Presentation and Discussion

### Week X (11/1): Measuring Innovation
-   **Smith, Keith. 2012. Measuring Innovation. In** ==_**The Oxford Handbook of Innovation==**_ **edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**
-   Hall, Bronwyn, Jacques Mairesse, and Pierre Mohhen. 2010. Measuring the Returns to R&D. In _Handbook of the Economics of Innnovation_ edited by Bronwyn Hall and Nathan Rosenberg. Elsevier.
-   **Nagaoka, Sadao, Kazuyuki Motohashi, and Akira Goto. 2010. Patent Statistics As An Innnovation Indiator. In** _**Handbook of the Economics of Innnovation**_ **edited by Bronwyn Hall and Nathan Rosenberg. North Holland.**
-   Godin, Benoit. 2005. _Measurement and Statistics on Science and Technology: 1920 to the Present_. Routledge.
-   Jaffe, Adam B., and Manuel Trajtenberg. 2002. _Patents, Citations and Innovations: A Window on the Knowledge Economy_. MIT Press.
-   Hansen, J. A. 2001. Technological Innovation Indicators: A Survey of Historical Development and current Practice. In _Innovation Policy in the Knowledge-Based Economy_ edited by M. P. Feldmann and A. Link. Kluwer.
-   Brouwer, E., and A. Kleinknecht. 1997. Measuring the Unmeasurable: A Country’s Expenditure on Product and Service Innovation. _Research Policy_ 25: 1235-42.
-   Grilliches, Z. 1990. Patent Statistics as Economic Indicators: A Survey_. Journal of Economic Literature_ 28: 1661-707.
-   Trajtenberg, Manuel. 1990. A Penny for Your Quotes: Patent Citations and the Value of Innovation. _RAND Journal of Economics_ 21: 172-187.

### Week XI (11/8): Networks of Innovation
-   **Powell, Walter, and Stine Grodal. 2012. Networks of Innovators. In ==The Oxford Handbook of Innovation== edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**
-   **Murray, F. 2002. Innovation as Co-evolution of Scientific and Technological Networks: Exploring Tissue Engineering.** _**Research Policy**_ **31: 1389-403.**
-   Ahuja, G. 2000. Collaboration Networks, Structural Holes, and Innovation: A Longitudinal Study. _Administrative Science Quarterly_ 45:425-55.
-   Dyer, J. H., and K. Nobeoka. 2000. Creating and Maintaing a High-Performance Knowledge-Sharing Network: The Toyota Case. _Strategic Management Journal_ 21:345-67.
-   Hansen, M. T. 1999. The Search-Transfer Problem: The Role of Weak Ties in Sharing Knowledge across Organization Subunits. _Administrative Science Quarterly_ 44:82-111.
-   Freeman, C. 1991. Networks of Innovators: A Synthesis of Research Issues. _Research Policy_ 20: 499-514.
-   Special guest lecture by Seolmin Yang (doctoral candidate, KAIST STP)

### Week XII (11/15): Financing Innovation
-   Howell, S. T. 2017. Financing innovation: Evidence from R&D grants. _American Economic Review_ 107: 1136–64.
-   **O’Sullivan, Mary. 2012. Finance and Innovation. In** ==**The Oxford Handbook of Innovation**== **edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**
-   Hall, Bronwyn H. 2009. The Financing of Innovation. In _The Handbook of Technology and Innovation Management_ edited by Scott Shane. Wiley.
-   Hall, B. H. and Lerner, J., 2009. The Financing of R&D and Innovation. In _The Handbook of the Economics of Innovation_ edited by B. H. Hall & N. Rosenberg. Elsevier.
-   **Perez, Carlota. 2002. Technological Revolutions and Financing Capital: The Dynamics of Bubbles and Golden Ages  Part II: Technological Revolution and the Changing Behavior of Financial Capital. Edward Elgar.** -안나옴. 책 전권 필요?
-   Kortum, S., & Lerner, J. 2000. Assessing the impact of venture capital on innovation. _Rand Journal of Economics_ 31: 674–692.

### Week XIII (11/22): Innovation and Economic Performance
-   Pianta, Mario. 2012. Innovation and Employment. In _The Oxford Handbook of Innovation_ edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.
-   **Verspagen, Bart. 2012. Innovation and Economic Growth. In ==The Oxford Handbook of Innovation== edited by Jan Fagerberg, David C. Mowery, and Richard R. Nelson. Oxford University Press.**
-   **Fagerberg, Jan, Martin Srholec, and Bart Verspagen. 2010. Innovation and Economic Development. In** _**Handbook of the Economics of Innnovation**_ **edited by Bronwyn Hall and Nathan Rosenberg. North Holland.** --안나옴
-   Scherer, Frederic M. 1999. _New Perspectives on Economic Growth and Technological Innovation_. Brookings Institution Press.
-   Grossman, Gene M., and Elhana Helpman. 1993_. Innovation and Growth_. Ch 1: Growth and Technology. MIT Press.
-   Aghion, P., and P. Howitt. 1992. A Model of Growth through Creative Destruction. _Econometrica_ 60: 323-51.
-   Romer, Paul. 1990. Endogenous Technological Change. _Journal of Political Economy_ 98: S71-S102.
-   Solomou, Solomos. 1986. Innovatoin Clusters and Kondratieff Long Waves in Economic Growth. _Cambridge Journal of Economics_ 10(2): 101-112.
-   David, Paul A. 1975. _Technical Choice, Innovation and Economic Growth: Essays on American and British Experience in the Nineteenth Century_. Cambridge University Press.

### Week XIV (11/29): Politics of Innovation I
-   Dew, Nicholas, Kathryn Aten, and Geraldo Ferrer. 2017. How many admirals does it take to change a light bulb? Organizational innovation, energy efficiency, and the United States Navy’s battle over LED lighting. _Energy Research & Social Science_ 27: 57-67.
- **Taylor, Mark Zachary. 2016.** _**The Politics of Innovation: Why Some Countries Are Better than Others at Science and Technology**_**. Oxford University Press. Ch 3. Cardwell’s Law in Action: How Do Nations Innovate? Policies and Institutions. Ch 7: Technological Losers and Political Resistance to Innovation.**  --찾아볼것
-   **Mazzucato, Mariana. 2013.** _**The Entrepreneurial State: Debunking Public vs. Private Sector Myths**_**. Anthem Press. Ch 3: Risk-Taking State: From ‘De-risking’ to ‘Bring It On!’** --찾아볼것
-   O’Riain, Sean. 2004. _The Politics of High-Tech Growth: Developmental Network States in the Global Economy_. Cambridge University Press.
    
### Week XV (12/6): Politics of Innovation II
-   Malik, Tariq H. 2017. Varieties of capitalism, innovation performance and the transformation of science into exported products: A panel analysis. _Technological Forecasting & Social Change_ 118: 324-333.
-   ==**Fuchs, Erica. 2010. Rethinking the Role of the State in Technology Development: DARPA and the Case for Embedded Network Governance.** _**Research Policy**_ **39: 1133-1157.**==
-   Edler, Jakob and Luke Georghiou. 2007. Public procurement and innovation – Resurrecting the demand side. _Research Policy_ 36: 949-963.
-   **Furman, Jeffrey, Michael Porter, and Scott Stern. 2002. The Determinants of National Innovative Capacity.** _**Research Policy**_ **31: 899-933.**

### Week XVI (12/13): Final Week
Submission of the final research prospectus by December 16th (Friday)