1,078 small satellites in past 5 years  

Separate research questions
transition - new space itself is a description. 
private agencies are participating on the sector. 
old stuffs 
how we can answer the question: governmetn vs private sector 
- gov can be enterpreneur. 
- private sector can be inhibition. 
- gov bad, private good --> no 
How we actually frame? 

Meaningfully answerablwe?

Research question - fact finding. sth is the case, sth is true 
implication을 위해서 써서는 안된다. 
Framing의 문제가 있음. 

Why regional analysis require analysis - 

실질적으로 innovation을 일으키고 있는가? 
Whether proliferational private sectors are really meaningful innovations?
Market itself is not a innovation - new space is generating more innovation -> market innovation. 


Finance capital 
GIS: Geographic Information System 

Public Procurement 

The start ups are heavily connected with research institutes and universities. 
나라 스페이스 - 연세대, 페리지 에어로 - KAIST, 스페이스맵 - 한양대 교수 

컨소시엄 to join small enterprises and startup 
Firm-level innovation 

Standardization as a innovation killer. 
* 달러로 환전해서 쓰기.

이지은 7
# Why government-led projects facilitate private sectors to satisfy the national policy? in case of eco-friendly ships in Korean context

* Background info
* Research question
* Research argument
* Reference
Background information 
- Carbon neutrality strategy 

* Quasi government organization, research institution, shipowners, universities
* Novel in combination 
* 
comment - main question을 설명하려면 특정 이슈가 있어야 할 것 같음. 
- Satisfy policy? 기준을 충족시키다 meeting the criteria? 
- compositing the national policy? 
- standardization or specification? How government led policies be effective? question of how rather than why. 
- Private sector facilitate sth? 
	- 어떤 정책을 했을 때 in order to meet their policy target, goals 
	- Research questions are not precise yet. 
	- 

박현빈 
# Disaster & Innovation: the case of large-scale wildfire 
강원도 산불 
8
Forest fire statistics 
technological innovation to protect forest from wildfires 
Service innovation - artifacts: maintenace and repair, data, symbols... 

* Good to search on theoretical frameworks 
* Organizational lock-in in wildfire responses? which systemic approach? 

Quantitative researches using interview, surveying 
* theory
* Innovation is more than technological. 
* Generic stem 
* we are lot more critical to the engineering-driven community
* Disaster research reduction DRR innovation 

Is there any regional lock-in? 
practices, inertial, get used to certain use of sth, then it is unusual. 

Organizational issues 


# Abolition of Net Neutrality lead innovation in telecommunication technology for ISP? 
7
Conceptualization 
Why, Term explanation, Research methodologies 

Network affects on our society? 
NN: Net neutrality 
ISP: Internet service provider
CP: Conent provider

Net business - cost from the tech gap between 1st and 2nd ISP 
Cost of investing in R&D
Innovation Points of ISP in the past
Analyze the current research subject of ISP 

This does not quite relate to the research question. 
박경신 - 망중립성 

Whether KT after privatize became more innovative or not? 


# Chi 
9
Phenomenon
Research gap and research questions
Hypothesis

Innovation paradox
sectoral innovation paradoc, national innovation paradoc
Innovation paradox - in latecomer countries 

System failure 
- european paradox
- swedish paradox
	- invest a lot in science and technology
- Swedish innovation paradox 
- Innovation paradox: advanced vs latecomer 
- production than in knowledge commercialization 
- pressure from commercialization processes
- advanced vs latecomer 
	- how to impact research 
	- high comercialization ways - basic knoweldge susteain 

스웨덴 파라독스 - 데이터 제공과 methodology가 잘됭있음. 

Knowledge chasm 

Knowledge production is measured 
How productive are researcher producing paper comparing to non-researcher compromising. Evaluation number, contrasting two countries 
Why gap in input and output? 


# May 
* Sectoral innovation system in Myanmar
	* Internet penetration rate in myanmar - startup thrives 
* 2010-2015 : end of military rule 50 yrs
* **RQ** Political transitions have impact on the dynamics of ICT sector in Myanmar
* **RQ** How does the ICT sector dynamics affect digital transformation of businesses in myanmar 
* Sectoral system - framework 
10
Data collection method가 잘되어있음. 
Policy implications 
* With democraticization, ICT innovation can be much better? 
	* Isn'ti quite obvious?
	* WHAT IS PROFIT OF RESEARCH?
* What are the Demonstrating with research? 
	* Top down decision making in certain policy. 
 
* Newton research
	* Trivial fact, demonstrate the framework
* Galileo research 
* **Causal not descriptive** Why that has that way? pursue descriptive research 

의범
Is convergence education in university valid in NIS?
창의융합형인재? - intuitive framework 
* When a person is innovative, the results are innovative 
* Triple helix of state-academia-industry 

Conergence education type - multidimensionally classfied 
Engineering-engineering 
Technology convergence - diversity, two disparate technology areas exchange 
comparison of graph - drawn individually indicator type. 

* How can it be indicated? 
* How to define the innovation indicator? 
* Does A lead to B -> A가 B가 되나요? 
* Does A lead B  -> A가 B를 이끄나요? 

**Ecological inference**
R&D spending leads to more pattern?
unit of analysis is same 


You cannot put x and y axis together. link convergence -- 
