# Cardwell's Law in Action
* Why some countries innovate more?
* S&T had fairly low priorities throughout most of human history
	* The connection between science and technology was not broadly recognized before the late nineteenth century 
* Modern economic thought: practically define new science and technology
	* Most societies realize that S&T can vastly improvve their standards of living, economic competitiveness, and physical security 
* Most government felt that they had little duty or ability to promote innovation
	* S&T progress is a random occurrence, a product of luck, not policy
	* National interests
	* After WWII, gov have come to believed they can, and should do something positive about national innovation rates. 
* How easy it has become to innovate --> Location should not matter
	* Globalization 
	* Transportation
	* Communication 
# What needs Explaining?
* Technologically disparity countries
* Consumption than production
	* Many countries can afford to buy cutting-edge S&T, but they cannot create it
	* Factories that produce exports or often set up and run by foreigner. 
* National innovatinon rate, look at S&T creation instead of consumption 
	* National patent data 

# Government roles
Science & Technology were fairly low priorities throughout most of human history. 
Technological change occurred more in accident, trial and error, than a result of systematic research and development(R&D) or the application of scientific knowledge 
Modern economic: S&T can vastly improve their standards of living, economic competitiveness and physical security. 
attitudes towards gov have transformed. 
recently as 70yrs ago, gov felt that they had little duty or ability to promote innovation. Random Occurrence, a product of luck not policy. 
Now, to national interest. 
globalization - after WWII
--> Location should not matter. investigate whether stark national diffeerences in S&T performance still persist? 

# What needs explaining? 
Technological disparity
- Many countries can now afford to buy cutting-edge S&T, but cannot create it. 
- technologies were produced by American or European defense firms. -- All imported. 
- result of offshoring by western european firms. 
- Need to look S&T creation instead of consumption. 

## Methodology to observe the variation 
* National patent data 
	* US is most innovative country in the time period. - US 1.0   
	* Mid-level innovator, Rapid innovator
	* patent somehow reflect specific industries.  
* Scientific knowledge is regularly used as an input to the innovation process. 
* STEM research publiation rates 
	* Strong science nations
	* midlevel science nations
	* differences between national sceince and technology performance provide evidence of a divide recognized earlier in this book: scientific progress and technological innovation overlapl but the former does not necessarily lead to latter. 
* Private firms often ddo not publish their scientific research. The scientific output would not show up in the data that tracks research published in peer-reviewed scientific journals. 
	* corporate science is kept in house, as trade secrets, distributed internally or sold on privte markets. 
	* military and defense contractors would also tend to remain unpublished. 

# Which are the world most innovative nations?
 
TFP(Total factor productivity)
The three innovation indices: Florida, INSEAD, and WEF : only offer a single recent year.    

TFP rank can be a result of factor endowments, institutions, or policies rather than S&T. 
The world Economic Forum(WEF) index: produced from survey data, comes with much subjectivity. 

# China
China has dramatically improved S&T capabilities in an absolute sense, it still remains a minor player relative to the world's most innovative nations. 
* patent filing in china has been for utility models and industrial design: faster, less expensive, lower standards than patents for new products or processes. 
* citation weighted data - 
* STEM workers have far less funding and equipments. 
* China generally lacks the ability to do big science or organize large scale research projects. 
* 
* Middle Kingdom - especially outside of Beijing or Shanghai. 
	* Do not invent breakthrough technologies themselves. create workshops for manufacturing other countries innovations. 
		* low cost knock offs of foreign products. 
		* high technology exported
*   Short term, low-risk improvements to production or distribution processes, or incremental improvements to foreign products. 
	* Results on fantastic economic growth, but CHinese do not create much cutting-edge S&T. 
	* Similar arguments can be presented for - Russia, India, Brazil, South Africa. 
	* Occasionally win attention from the media as "Next miracle economy" but actually produce little in S&T. 

# Popular explanation of national innovation rates
 