#STP510 #Week3
# Innovation System Research: Where it came from and Where it Might Go

# Evolution of NIS Research
- Interdeciplinary 


# The NIS Concept
## Milestone
* Fredrich List, 1981: National systems of production
* Christopehr Freeman: 


# NIS as Analytical Focusing Device
* NIS concerns
	* Public rates orf return are higehr than private rates
	* return of public money is ~~

# Challenges for IS Research
* Number of Nations --> cluster and break down 
* General laws... 
* Cannot dispense from historical anlysis 
## Understanding knowledge and learnig 
* National characteristicss reflecting in the firms 

* STI indicators do not perform well in terms of innovation
	* Narrow down the numbers
	* STI & DUI: When combined, numbers go higher 
* Firms that combine gives much more prone to innovations
* How to study NIS?
	* Core; Firms, Knowledge Infrasturcture
	* Wiresetting: Family, education, ... Historical recored, Demand from households and public sectors 
	* Knowledge production & Knowledge ensulation 

# National system of Innovation and Economic Development
- Fill the gap:
	- Interactive learning of underestimation 
- Method to study NIS
	- Sytlized facts
		-===Firm is the key.===
* Sustainability 
	* Innovation have role in fostering sustainability 
* Making univ more open to society
	* private companies

linear model -> Chain link model. Result feedback & Intellectual innovations 

# NIS Lecture2. NIS: History concept model 

# Where did it start? Organization or Academia?
1) Ambiguity surrounding the academic or policymaking origins of the NIS Concept 
	* Both Organizations like DSTI
	* not a theoretical concept.
	* Policymakers informing academics or the other way around? --> Leader.. 
* What Launched NIS? 
	* Technical Change and Economic Theory: Orthodox deals with technical change in their models, 
		* How technology play economic growth.
		* Freeman
	* NIS: fits both world policy and academia
2) NIS Concept as a refutation of the neoclassical economics approach to the study of inovation 
	* Focusses on supply and demand.. 
	* Main assumptions of neoclassical economics: Individual purpose is to maximize utility, while company's purpose is to maximize incomes. 

## Challenging Neoclassical Model
* Not how technology is developing, the cycle 
* Lundvall, 

3) Formation of NIS epistemic community: 
* Innovative & policy makers both required. 
* Peter Hass, utilization is required; improvise and implement decision related to policy making

4) Flexible Interpretations of NIS Concept
5) Disagreement surrounding over-theorization of the NIS Concept 

* National is a key, but multidomain 


6) Disagreement on the presence of an NIS in all countries
	- NIS poilcy is very effective
7) Importance of the wider global geo-political context 

Is Innovation system just about generating new technologies? 
Innovation is not all about generating new measures, 

Extendign beyond the natinal context
Leading in the innovation process is a team work game, 
	Collaboration with other companies, 
	Economic and Status threat a method to promote innovation?

8) Refutation of the Linear Model of Innovtaion 
	1) understand the relation btw science and technology
