#STP510 #Week5
# Catch up Cycles & Changes in Industry Leadership
## Window of opportunity and responses of firms and countries i nthe evolutioin of sectoral systems

# Catch up Cycles
[[phenomenon]]: 

how the catch-up cycle characterized
how does it occur
how do latecomers catch up with incumbents and acquire industrial leadership?


* [[Catch-up]] : market share. 
* [[Leadership]] : Commanding position in specific industry
* [[Latecomer]] or [[Emerging countries]]: Firm shares 

* [[Sectoral system]] 
* Windows of opportunity " techno-economic paradigms"
* Demand windows: A new type of demands
* Institutional Windows: changes in institutional condition 

Responses from latecomers & incumbents

# Framework of catch-up cycles
- Global Leadership 
- Standard Catch-up cycle 
	- latecomer achieve the leader position after sme time. 
1) Entry
2) Gradual catching-up 
3) Forging ahead
4) Falling behind - new challenger 

### 1. Aborted Catch-up 
Latecomer fails to cath up . 

### 2. Persistent Leadership
Leader continues on the top

### 3. Coexistence of the old and new leaders
Latecomer reaches a leadership, and share. 

### 4. Return of old leadership
Incumbent lost catch-up again. 

# Theoretical Framework
[[Product Life Cycle]]
* Cost of production is critical comparative adavntage. 
* location of production moved frm developed countries to developing countries
	* ==Critics== : Immitation and Entry focused research 
	* Latecomer countries ca overcome
* Catch-up cycle theories could move on to developing country

[[Sectoral inovation system]]
Demand, Institution, Market, Actor, Knowledge & Technology

# Later stages of catch-up 
Windows of opportunity 
* Technological windows
* Demand windows
* Institutional windows
	* Creation of new demands 
	* rapid growth of domestic demands
* Responses to windows of opportunity 
	* Supporting 
* Latecomer 

# The Formal Model
Disruptiveness of technology
Ineffective responses

5 types of Catch-up Models
* Aborted cycle
* Persistence of leadership
* Return of old leadership
* Coexistence of leadership

# Case Study
1) Mobile
2) Memory
3) Camera 
4) Steel Industry - POSCO 

Research Questions? Aircraft industry, how airlines interact? & Emirate airlines growed? 
Catchup with new environment changes 

Innovation, Technological innovation - 
airline industry?  - european airlines & American domestic arirlines & emirates 
or KAI, Hanhwa

Develop the technology themselves, and 

5) Regional Jet Industry 
* Demand change: rapid growth in demands for small jet aircraft
6) Wine industry 
	* Technological discontinuity 

# Conclusion
Offers a framework of catch-up cycle 
Sectoral level & Country level to supporting the firm. 

How innovations differs? 
How we can go down from national level? 

How we can fail well? 

다음주엔 수업 없음. 다다음주에 아마도? 4-7 수업. 